Please welcome Andrew Ross. Sorcin and
his guest, co-founder and CEO of
Palanteer, Alex Karp.
>> Good morning everybody.
Palanteer's Alex Karp is here and we are
going to get into it. Alex, thank you
for being here. Um, Palanteer is named
uh after uh the seeing stones in JRR's
Tolken's Lord of the Rings. Uh Palencier
has a complicated, let's say sometimes
secretive, controversial business that
helps the US uh and other countries and
governments around the world make sense
of complicated data. That's what they
do. Its business has soared in the age
of artificial intelligence. Today, it is
among the top 30 most valuable companies
in the world. It is worth 4400 billion
dollars. And after October 7th, Karp has
been perhaps singularly the most
outspoken CEO in America to support
Israel. week after the attack he took
out a full page ad in this newspaper the
New York Times had four words on it said
Palanteer stands with Israel should say
the IDF and MSAD are clients of
Palunteer but there are a lot of
questions about what they are doing here
in the US including their contract with
ICE and their work around the world and
we are going to talk about all of it
Alex thank you for being with us
>> couldn't imagine why we're controversial
couldn't imagine
>> let let's discuss this because I think
um and I I mean this By the way, I see
that as we're on the side of I mean, you
know, when you when you support allies
in funny on in Israel, which I guess
typically is the most controversial in
public, honestly, interestingly, often
the least controversial in private um is
uh it's like it doesn't actually, and I
do support all those things, it doesn't
actually mean that you support every
decision. It means you support them
having a superior position to their
adversaries. I mean that that really
starts with America which is you know I
think one of the the real problems that
you know the non-controversial companies
have is they can't admit what they think
in private which is they believe what
they're doing is better and superior to
what other people are doing. I want to
get into all of that but I'll tell you
where I want to start. I want to start
with this. You wrote a book last year
called the technological republic and
you quote Samuel Huntington in it and
you that argues the following argues
that the rise of the west was not made
possible quote by the superiority of its
ideas or values or religion but rather
by its superiority in applying organized
violence.
What do you mean by that? And is that
what Palanteer ultimately does?
Well, I I I think one of the most
interesting about that about the quotes
that quote is it's indisputably and
obviously true.
>> And you you genuinely believe that the
US this idea of ideas, values, religion
has nothing to do with it. You think it
really is about organizing violence?
>> No, no, no. Sorry. I didn't say that our
ideas aren't important. Obviously, I I
come from an academic family and I was
planning to be an academic before I
realized it was worthless and I'd be
better at building things. Um but
>> we should talk about that, too. But um
but like okay one of the biggest one of
the biggest problems we have in our
elite institutions especially our IV
leagues is this indisputable truth that
no one would listen to the superior of
our ideas if our ability to organize in
violence was inferior that every single
person in the world believes outside of
the faculty of Harvard and certainly all
of our adversaries know to be true is
viewed as something that's kind of
worthy of great discussion and dispute.
And the primary reason they dispute it
honestly is because at their core they
they want to undermine the superiority
of western values which are meritocracy,
rule of law, accepting that inputs and
outputs are not the same that are the
basis of building the superiority on the
military on the military plane.
>> You think that the university culture is
trying to undermine that? Well, I think
it's one of I think it's moved from the
50s where it was trying to explain why
our constitution is the best way to
organize our lives, not others. Why why
meritocracy is necessary even if it
means letting in immigrants to your
institution. Uh why why inputs and
outputs aren't the same, why the first,
second, third, fourth amendment are are
are unique and why it was worth standing
up for these values has literally been
transformed especially in the humanities
departments too. Of course, none of that
could work because no one like us is
good at doing that basically. I mean,
that's like and therefore it could the
whole thing couldn't work and and
downstream of that is enormous
dysfunction and you see this all in all
sorts of issues.
Our primary and most important adversary
I say adversary consciously and not
enemy
I is China and we will decide AI and the
ability to implement it on the
battlefield primarily will decide the
values i.e the the norms, the laws, and
the spirit of the laws that are imposed
upon us across the globe. And if you
think for a minute they believe anything
that of the that we're being taught in
our idiotic faculty, you are even more
idiotic than the professors teaching
you. And and I'll tell you, if you
actually believe in these values, again,
I'm not a neoconi. Never was. That's why
I'm skeptical of immigration because I
don't think cultural all this cultural
assimilation hasn't worked in the last
50 years. And that's an obvious truth.
You're also not allowed to say I'm
skeptical of imposing values on other
people. I never believed we could we
should or try to make the Arab Middle
East Wilsonian uh people like a
Wilsonian ideal imposed upon them.
I if you believe for a second that
anyone else outside this country
believes that we are going to defend our
values without superiority and moral
violence, you you're just living in a
world that doesn't exist. It does not
exist. and no matter how much you try to
impose it on the rest of us, it still
won't exist.
>> Okay. I want to talk about you for a
second and your own politics and your
shift in politics. By the way, there's a
piece in the Washington Post about you
this morning that gets into some of
this. Um, you grew up
>> only because I have great respect for
you. I don't interrupt you immediately.
I didn't shift my politics. The
political parties have shifted their
politics. The the idea that what's being
called progressive is in any way
progressive is a complete farce. I've
been progressive since the beginning of
Palunteer. I'm continue to be progress.
I grew up in a highly intellectually
intellectual mostly Jewish incredibly
left-wing environment. And every
Saturday and every Friday I heard a
lecture about how the conservatives are
going to destroy this country with
illegal immigration because it's going
to undermine the fabric of the American
worker. That was 50 years ago. That's
what be means to be a progressive. Being
progressive doesn't mean just oh I oh it
feels so good to be involved in
dysfunction things that can never work a
form of socialism that's never worked
having no meritocracy that's not
progressive that's pretend that's
honestly cowardly and most people on
very half my old party knows it they
don't speak up it's it will
never work and it does not help you know
the biggest problem with that is it's
not helping the poor people that they
claim to hurt if you think that's
helping a black person in the inner city
you're ridiculous the Last thing anyone
in this country needs is a dysfunctional
educational system and handouts that
have never worked and are not going to
work.
>> Okay. Let me let me ask you though
because I know you say you you didn't
shift your view, but I I do want to read
you something that that appears as if
you shifted your view. Uh this is back
in 2017
uh about Trump. You said, quote, "I
respect nothing about the dude. It would
be hard to make up someone I find less
appealing." You know, there's a lot of
things that are about quoted about me
that were like not quoted in public.
Like in this book that you know, my
there's tons and tons of quotes. I'll
give you a different version of this. A
lot of these quote not you're not really
doing this and I have a actually we've
been at this for almost a decade and he
was kind enough to interview me when I
was a complete clown and joke to
everyone else besides me and our mly
crew of Palunteer and I greatly
appreciate that. Uh um one of the
biggest lessons and just a slight detour
to to the wonderful and very important
country of Germany that is seeming to be
crashing its German functionality and
competence into a plane uh into a like
uh into the ground of political
correctness that it somehow can't escape
for historical reasons. Um the minute
you judge somebody by anything but the
issues you agree with. So in Germany,
the Green Party and the Socialist have
convinced the majority party they can
never vote with the far right on
immigration. I care about two issues. I
care about immigration and
reestablishing the deterrent capacity of
America without being a colonialist
neocon view. And on those two issues,
those two issues, this president has
performed. And those are the two issues
I care about. So, what were the issues
that you you you didn't agree with when
when you said he was not an appealing
dude before?
>> Well, what was that?
>> Well, first of all, you're quoting
somebody who's quoting me off the record
that's in the public record. I care
about two issues. I am not going to be
proxy coraled into having no power by
something of like, well, I care about
these two issues. He's def he by the
way, I was a supporter of the Democratic
Party. What two issues did the
Democratic Party not perform on? Does
anyone think the Democratic Party
performed on migration or deterrence?
That's crazy. You could now you could
care about different issues. I'm
pro-choice. It's not my number one
issue. I'm pro I'm wildly progay rights.
It's not my number one issue. The minute
you allow yourself to be coraled into I
disagree with this person. I disagree.
You've basically transferred your power
to one party. Palanteer and I am not
transferring my power of power power and
our influence which honestly you know
the main mainstream media at the
Washington Post and at the New York
Times doesn't always like me. That's
great because you know who does like me?
About 10 million people primarily dudes
in this country. And you know what? I'm
going to use my whole influence to make
sure this country stays skeptical on
migration and has a deterrent capacity
that it only uses selectively.
>> Okay. Let me ask you this, and this goes
to maybe um I don't if it has to do with
just being a blunt instrument,
compassion, what have you. I think you
could argue uh in terms of immigration
policy that you don't want to have
illegal immigrants in the country or you
want to prevent illegal immigrants from
coming into the country, etc. We are now
seeing uh ICE working its way around the
country. Um and oftentimes uh folks
taking people ripping people off the
streets with masks on.
you and Palanteer are working hand in
hand with ICE. You that's public. What
do you make of that? What do you make of
the It's not necessarily the policy, but
the approach to the policy.
>> Let me give you my critique of what I
would call I think you're this
questioning is proxy culpable of our
country has selective empathy for
everybody but working class particularly
white males. So when you look at when
you look at coverage in mainstream
newspapers about the constitutionality
of blowing up boats that are bringing
fentinol here, I guarantee you if that
fentinol was killing people at schools
we went to present potentially your kids
are going to, it would be constitutional
to blow up those boats. There is
selective MI instrument instrumental
uh use of of of empathy that somehow is
only applied at the point where it would
help to the idea of what
>> sorry sorry you asked the question
you're going to get the full answer you
don't want the the full answer you don't
want you brought me on stage you know
what you're getting okay it's uh and by
the way I'm on stage and I know a lot of
the people on stage sponsoring this are
skeptical of me you know why I'm on
stage here Because at Palanteer and I
would encourage you to think of this, I
divide the world into Palunteer
essentially in Palunteer derangement
syndrome, Palanteer skeptics and
Palanteer haters. My biggest fans
started off as Palanteer skeptics and
Palanteer haters. I believe that someday
almost everyone in this audience is
going to agree with me. You may not like
me now, but you're going to agree later.
And I'll also tell you something. Look
to the left, look to the right. The
person you think is offended by this
actually agrees with me.
That is 100% true.
>> Okay. Well, okay. Sorry. And yeah, it's
100% true. And keep that in mind. I
would tell you I will tell you a secret
that I hope the New York Times and the
Washington Post doesn't listen to. Okay.
Sorry. Let me I
>> I just want to bring us back to this one
issue, which is No, no. You talked about
the rule of law and you talked about uh
things being constitutional. And so,
here we are. We're talking about these
uh boats, for example, that were blown
up, right? And uh whether you have
empathy for them or not given uh the
folks who are getting uh you know killed
by fentanyl the question is whether this
is being done on a constitutional basis
and being done in the right way and if
it's not being done in the right way how
you feel about that
>> of course but part of the reason why I
like this questioning is the more
constitutional you want to make it the
more precise you want to make it the
more you're going to need my product. So
you keep pushing on making it
constitutional. I'm totally supportive
of that. You know, a constitutional you
would need to understand where the where
the things are going, how are they
going, under what conditions, where do
they belong. But I'm asking you just as
a person on a on a sort of both sort of
a moral basis as a human when you see
people, young people, uh, mothers and
fathers and families getting ripped
apart with the masks on with the ice
folks. How you what you think of that?
>> Of course. But you're this is you're at
this point you're abusing empathy
because I of course don't like that,
right? I no one likes that. No American.
This is the fairest, least bigoted, most
open-minded culture in the world. If you
Okay.
>> But if you don't like and you say, "Hey,
government, you and
>> you going to let me finish, please."
Okay. So, in this country, it you have
1% of the country in prison. 1% who were
in prison and therefore have no rights.
Do you know what happens to you when you
go to prison? They take you away from
your kids. You know who that happens to?
Disproportionately workingass,
disproportionately black and Hispanic
men and white men in the underclass.
Where are the thousands of articles
about them? Nobody cares. And they don't
care because it does not either serve
the ability the the the desire to force
me to vote for one party, which
basically takes away all my power.
That's effectually what it does. If I
agree to say this is the worst thing in
the world, I essentially have given up
my vote. My vote is not for you. My vote
is for these two issues. The second
reason they don't care is because
somehow no one has empathy with any of
those people because no one none of us
really deal with those people. At
Palunteer, we are on the side of
workingclass Americans. We support
people who go to the military. We save
their lives. We bring them home safer.
Our AI actually makes workers more
wealthy, more valuable. And the 10 to 15
million people that love me despite
what's written, half of them made a lot
of money on us. And you know what
they're like? They're like people like
me who think, you know what, we have to
do better. Of course, we have to do
better.
>> What do What do you say to this then?
Take me out of it. Take the media out of
it. There's a group of 13 former
Palunteer employees who wrote an open
letter to you and they stated, quote,
that Palunteer's leadership has
abandoned its founding ideals.
We have 5,000 ex-perarians and 4,000
current Palunteerians.
And by the way, we encourage a culture
of disagreement, which you know exists.
Anyone can come visit us. You'll find
half the people disagreeing with me at
least on any issue. But I just want to
say we have 5,000 exp Palanteerians. You
have 13. Half of whom were like in the
humanities department of Palunteer,
which is a little bit like being in the
printing press part of New York Times. A
very important part, but no one's really
listening to your opinion. So it's like
it's yeah, you know, if you if you have
an organization, I'll tell you what, a
lot of Palunteerians Palunteerians are
mostly uncomfortable. Most Palunteerians
are like you. I Okay, I don't know who
you are because of course because you're
an objective journalist, but um they
broadly are okay with they they like the
work we do in Ukraine. By the way, could
Europeans finally stick up for us since
we're basically the between us and
Russia? Uh and um but they they're very
proud of that in general, although
that's also very controversial in non-
elite circles. That's important to
remember. They're pretty okay with
Israel stuff, especially since a lot of
the BS written about us on the right
primarily, not primarily on the left.
that somehow we're doing facial
recognition stuff and we're building a
database. Any technical person knows
that's BS. By the way, if you've heard
that and you believe that, listen to the
person who told you that, do 10 minutes
of research and you'll see who has
credibility for
>> speak to that directly though because
people talk about surveillance. They
they immediately say surveillance
palunteer that you are helping the US
government in a massive surveillance
program given the amount of data that's
coming in from all sorts of different
agencies. First thing before I I will
absolutely get to that the biggest
misconception about Palunteer is none of
this Palunteer is an absolute dominant
juggernaut in US commercial and AI. Our
pro our revenue grew 121% the most
important metric in enterprise software.
We have the highest number ever
recorded. It's well over 2x any number
that would be highly respectable. So
we're like the Michael Jordan on the the
numbers in US commercial. And that
really pisses a lot of people off.
That's true. Most of our mic most of our
money 75% of our revenue comes from
America that's growing 77% and most of
our market cap comes from that. So like
we are just crushing it in the most
meritocratic environment in the world US
commercial. Okay. So the surveillance
stuff I you know of course you know
there there's the paleianist version of
it which you know which is like our
product could never be abused. What is
true is that we are highly ethical but
don't believe us on that. the the
instrument. We are not obviously not
building a database. We're not I mean
the most absurd one is we've built a
database in Israel. We're bringing here.
Okay, that is complete nuts. First of
all, we were in this country from the
very beginning. And second of all, you
don't need us to build a database.
That's like, oh, I I'm I'm like I have a
ruler so I can a ruler and a pencil so I
can do math. Oh, I got a calculator, you
know. So, it's just that's like you're
you're selling your people like corn
syrup, cornflakes or something. Okay.
So, you get to the big issue. Are we
building a database that can be used for
surveillance? No. Okay. But the more
subtle version is if you're legally
surveiled, we don't even really work
heavily with the the FBI or DOJ. Could
you put the could you put it in our
product? Yes. It are our enemies
surveiled using data that goes into our
product 100%. And I completely support
that. The most interesting thing about
the lie uh that we are doing this is not
that our product couldn't be abused. Any
workable technology that's ever been
built has been abused. Electricity has
been abused. Gasoline engines have been
abused. Okay. But our product is the
single hardest product in the world to
abuse because every single step that you
take is absolutely transparent. So if
you want to abuse if you want to use our
product to abuse human rights, you've
created a record of you doing it. I can
tell you and this is the part where you
can get into the low trust environment
and you don't have to believe me. the
the environments that abuse data in this
world mostly sigen meaning from
satellites have never liked our product
and we were the first place to act we
are the first and to my extent uh to my
knowledge only company that said we're
not going to work in Russia we're not
going to work in China and by the way on
the issue everyone would think for
because they somehow think I'm like only
care about you know they we were the
first company to say we would not build
a Muslim bet database and we ended
contracts in this country with with
institutions that were essentially there
to surveil Muslim Americans.
And the only the primary reason for
these attacks is on the far left uh
people are like they do not like us
because we stand for meritocracy
independent
of all variables. We stand for the rule
of law. We stand for competence and we
we call out the complete that
that that this okay on the far right
they don't like us because they think
I'm somehow a Jewish conspiracy because
two of the four or five co-founders are
Jewish. I'm like okay great you know a
lot of Jews are successful. It's not all
conspiracy. It is a fact.
Those are just the facts. um you
mentioned
>> and I'm a little bit pissed at the New
York Times honestly but since you and
the main reason is I believe I believe
in your if you're listening I believe in
your mission when you write a
technically completely illiterate
article you lose a lot of credibility if
people are technical and that's just a
fact that article about us being a
surveillance thing you is like where
it's all implied what we do yeah but the
problem is you lose credibility with
anyone who goes on the thing and then
and that's damaging for our democra Let
me ask you this question though. Is
there a red line for you? Meaning if you
saw your software being used in a way
that you genuinely believed was
unconstitutional or illegal, would you
are there conversations you ever have
back channel or otherwise where you say,
"Guys, uh, this is not this is not cool.
We're not doing this."
>> You know, there's a term that was
unfortunately coined called constructive
engagement. Um, first of all, again, I
it's we we did not sell our product to
uh cigarette manufacturers that wanted
to sell their cigarettes to poor black
neighborhoods. We pulled the m our
product from uh in law enforcement
institutions that were purely doing
profiling. In certain countries in the
Latin America, racial profiling is just
part of how they do credit scores. We
could have made a lot of money on that.
We refused to do it. We've said no to
many countries across the world. We said
no to China. We didn't we didn't say no
but we didn't work in in adversarial
countries. So you know like we have like
there's always have you done this I
think is the most important and we did
this at points where it was critical and
our we were in desperate times
financially. So we did this when it
absolutely could have crushed our
country our our our company. So the
obvious answer is yes. Then there's the
more subtle answer. All these countries
and people I defend in public like
Israel is a perfect example. I think
most of the critiques of Israel, not
all, not all, but a lot of people just
have like
Israel derangement or Jewish derangement
syndrome. It's like they're like
hobbyists. It's like they think about
Jews all day. It's like I don't know. I
grew up in the Jewish community. How
often do you think about Jews? I don't
think about Jews very often. So, it's
like, hey, I of course I'm going to
defend in a way publicly that I can
assure you privately
people have less present conversations
than the one we're having. Like I told I
told the Israeli government from the
beginning, maximum violence to the
people organizing violence, minimal
violence to the people on the front end,
and I told every single person.
>> Do you think that they lived up to that?
We're going to talk to to Prime Minister
afternoon.
>> You know, you you you I I I could tell
you I feel that if somewhat
illustration,
on Israel, on these issues, and on lots
of other things, we'd have a better
world. or primarily my Democratic party.
You know, it's like, do we really have
to pretend that it's immoral to have a
border?
>> In other words, you don't think that
they have done it as well as
>> you know, it's well, I'll put it this
way. In a world where people didn't have
so much derangement syndrome, I would
would be a lot more critical in this
world. I think you have to compare them
to what the competence level of any
other country and you say, yeah, these
things are very hard and brutal and
watching these things happen is very
difficult. But you know, yeah, I it's a
very hard world because in the end we
are in a world where the there there
really aren't high integrity partners on
any side of the debate. So the minute
you admit that in public that someone is
wrong, you're really just serving
somebody who has no interest in
advancing the debate at all. They have
an interest in their party winning,
that's not my interest. My party is an
advant my version is we advance America
as the superior country in the world and
we remove a lot of the dysfunction by
argument in by persuading people which
I'm notoriously bad at. Palanteer we
believe we're notoriously good at being
right.
>> Alex, you founded this company um with
>> not at persuading people we're right.
>> We leave that to the New York Times. uh
you you you you co-founded this company
with Peter Teal and for a long time
there was a view that Peter uh who's
been on this stage many times uh was the
conservative and you were the
progressive and that that served the
interests actually of the company in a
certain way because uh you were
effectively bipartisan. I'm curious how
you think now now that there's a view
that you and Peter are allin with this
with this administration in particular
that if in fact Democrats come to uh
take over the White House in 28 or 32 or
whatever it is in the future that that
will make it more complicated for the
company.
>> Well, first of all, I don't think that
view like most of these views is makes
any sense. I'm an independent. My vote
is up for grab. If you if you if you are
willing to talk about having a closed
border and maintaining deterrence, I and
I so I don't think that's at all true.
And I I will tell you something else
that's true. If the Democrats, my former
party or current party or however you
want to look at it, ran someone who
agreed with me, even in private, they
would win. So, you know, maybe you
should stop winning in the faculty
lounge and start winning. You know, we
have a saying we we're apparently not
supposed to say anymore, but we always
said we're we're we're uh hot we're cold
in the streets and hot in the sheets.
Democratic party should think about that
one a lot. Okay, let me ask let me ask
you so um can I ask you a different
question?
>> By the way, let me answer your the more
the second derivative of your question.
>> We're not doing at Palunteer what's in
the best interest. We we do in Palunteer
what we think is right. And you know,
you know, the funny thing is because you
know, of our ability to build, I guess
the 30th, I think it's like top 20 US
companies, something like that. And
we're accelerating in year 20, which no
one has ever done with a lot of stuff no
one else done. And we are the backbone
of us to turn. Um, people assume that
we're more, in fact, we have this
problem at Palanteer. We have people who
join, they're like, they think they're
joining a normal company. We're not a
normal company. We are fighting for what
we believe and we're putting in a
product to give the people that agree
with us a superior position.
>> Okay. So, I want to ask you this. Um,
and it's a Trump question. You wrote
your college thesis on fascism.
There's a view, and I'm curious where
you land. Do you think that President
Trump is a fascist?
>> Of course not. I think that's stupid,
honestly. And you know what? Again, you
you can go all day on this stuff. It's
it's honestly idiotic. I grew up half my
life in Germany. I spent time with
actual fascists. I went and talked to
lots of former Nazis.
The the this like we have a democratic
society and you know he won in a
landslide. I don't see any sign of him
being look of course I don't agree like
it's like I I don't know what the point
of these it's like.
>> Well, the reason I was asking it was
because you did study this. This was
your thesis and there's a lot of people
who have different views about this. I
was actually ask you let me ask you a
different question but maybe it's
related. Um you know the US government
has been taking stakes in lots of
different technology companies recently.
>> Okay sorry if you want to with all
respect I am I am running the most
important tech company in the world. If
you want to talk about benalities about
who I support how I support why I
support it you can ask them all day. I'm
keep answering the same question which
is I believe your questions basically
the third derivative of them is I
transfer all my political power to you
by by being boxed in the same way the
Green Party boxes boxes in No let me
just ask you this so originally the CIA
do you remember this was an early
investor in Coutell uh the venture
capital arm was a an early investor in
Palunteer this is why I'm asking the
question actually because I think
there's a lot of people who are looking
right now at uh sort of the the
industrial policy of the
the country is taking stakes in
businesses that they think are
important, uh, national security issues
and the like. And
>> but isn't that a classically social
democratic view?
>> Well, maybe it is. But my question to
you, it was just going to be, you know,
if the White House came to you and said,
"Look, hey, Alex, we really like you. We
think you're important to this country.
You're a very important part of this,
and we u if we're going to continue to
give you these contracts, we want a
piece of the action." What how you would
what you would think of that?
>> I mean, we'll cross that road when we
get there. My understanding is people
who are in dire trouble go to the White
House and ask for money and they say
we've made terrific business decisions
and we want your help. Why wouldn't the
American people participate? Like you
know one of the biggest problems if you
get to okay let's just take what is the
biggest problem in this culture. I'll
tell you the biggest problem. No one
believes the institutions are credible.
And why don't they believe they're and I
struggle to to believe they're credible
too? Because these business leaders make
completely stupid decisions and they get
bailed out a year later they're getting
huge bonuses and what do the American
people get? Nothing. And that's a huge
problem. Like if you make like So I
think the real version is like I made a
lot of decisions when we began talking
annoying each other 10 years ago.
Hopefully I'm annoying you as much as 10
years ago. Uh or more. uh when when when
I made a you know this every decision
Palanteer made FDA's
going public building products no one
enterprise large data sets going to
government acknowledging American
superiority being proarritocracy
launching an AI platform calling into
question that AI models would actually
be able to perform without orchestration
every single one uh every single
ourtology every single one of those was
viewed as stupid you know What I
actually have grown to appreciate about
capitalism, all the people who made the
right decisions went broke, are going
out of business, or are now have to copy
us. Microsoft launchtology, everyone
wants to do FDES. Everyone basically
copies me and Palanteer. That's what I
love about this country. If you want to
make your stupid decisions and then you
go to the White House and ask for money,
you should absorb the full risk of that.
And I'll tell you the full risk of that.
Somehow your salary should be capped to
the point where you make a lot of money
for the American people. If I I was
absorbing the full risk of our
stupidity. You were absorbing the full
risk of my stupidity by putting me on
there and knowing all the crazy I
was going to say. And you're going to
have to sit there and listen to it. And
you did it. And again, if I Yes. And
we're both absorbing the full risk of
each other's splendor. At at at the
moment Yeah. At the moment, at the
moment where I am wrong, I have to pay
the price for it. Just like, you know,
you're at the top of your game. Whether
we want it or not, you're at the top of
your game. Everybody wants to talk to
you. Okay. Sometimes that's annoying.
Okay. I, you know, it's like I was
talking to you when, you know, there
were other people above you. Now I'm
talking to you when no one's above you.
Okay. Now, uh, yeah, it's true. And, uh,
and, okay, and people think I'm
moderately successful now. Okay. So, we
at Palanteer absorb the full risk of our
failure and everyone else should too.
And you know, I constantly the critique
I get in Wall Street is I'm an arrogant
prick. Okay, great. Well, you know,
judge me by the accomplishment, the
delta between what I've done and my
arrogance. That's the definition of
arrogance. I if you're right a lot,
maybe asserting that you're right, going
to be right tomorrow is pretty
important. And and when we're not right,
I pay the price every day. Every day.
That's why we have this incredibly
painful internal structure of flatness.
So I can hear how wrong I am all day.
And we absorb the risk of that. And I
think in this culture, not enough pe
again, the the only people who pay the
price for being wrong in this culture in
complete fashion are poor people. the
rest of us somehow outsource all the
times we're wrong and stupid to the
whole society. But if you're poor and
you're a soldier or you're poor in the
ghetto, when you're wrong, you go to
prison or you die.
>> I got a different question
>> and no one cares.
>> I got a different question for you.
>> And again, look left and right. The one
thing I would say to people in the
audience, you know, you you know you a
lot of you think I'm right and you know
your spouse, your relative, your child,
the person at work would be horrified if
they knew it. You better speak up
because everyone who thinks I'm
ridiculous fascist, they're speaking up.
They write about it every day. If you do
not speak up, the people who are
disagreeing with me or think I'm stupid,
a lot I disagree with myself. So you
have to speak up and you cannot blame
the far-left, far-right idiots. When
they speak up for their views, do you
speak up for your views? Where do you
tell your colleague? I bet you at the
New York Times a lot of people read that
article about us and were ashamed. Did
you go to your editor and say, "How
could you write something that's
technically illiterate?" They guy might
be a fascist, but this is technically
illiterate. Let me ask you a different
question.
>> Did you or didn't you? Because I'm the
only one speaking up. you're gonna get a
world of technical illiteracy on the
right, on the left, and in the middle.
>> Alex, help me with this. Um, a lot of
people come on this stage or or
publicly, and I think this goes to the
the issue you're talking about to this
to to this audience saying, "Speak up."
And they come up on a stage or they go
on television or they talk to a reporter
or whatever it is publicly, and they're
timid. They don't tell you actually what
they think. They've got talking points.
They've got plans. All of that. You
don't have any of those things.
um you have been willing to say I
genuinely believe and I think the
audience can see it what you think and
my question is a do you worry about that
ever
um and b to the same point when you see
your peers in the business
not speaking up on these issues not
talking about not just these issues but
whatever they actually think do you
think we would be in a better world and
do you can you see a world where people
would actually day exactly what they
think the way you have.
>> I don't say exactly what I think.
>> You don't?
>> Well, no. That would get awesome. I
mean, like, yeah, you just like I don't
know, but but it's very close.
>> What What are we at here?
>> I don't know. I avoid the whole personal
stuff as much as I can, but um uh uh but
um the the first of all, let me give you
again the the the I think a lot of these
things are downstream from AI.
I the the people who are not speaking up
are making huge mistakes. First of all,
you're underestimating your audience.
When you're not saying roughly what you
think, forget let's get to a mark that's
realistic. 50% 20% of what even 20%
would be 20 times what's actually
happening. What the people in the
audience actually perceive is you're
lying. Now, they don't know what you're
lying about. And therefore, they impute
you're lying about something you're
probably not even lying about. And so I
have the problem that I hurt I I blow up
things all the time. People quit all the
time. People are offended. Family
members stop talking to me on occasion
for years till they discover I'm right.
Uh but uh and then they are even more
ashamed. And that could take another two
years. Um it's like uh but if you are
not there's really two problems or two
big problems. One, people impute your li
you're you're lying because and you're
not actually lying, but people assume
someone of your level of intellect does
not believe the stupid things you're
saying and they then the the biggest
problem is you lose the smartest people
outside. And the problem that they
underestimate is you lose the smartest
people inside because when I'm speaking
here, everyone at Palunteer, current,
past, and present, knows, hey, he's
speaking, he's doing exactly what he
does at home,
>> right? So he's telling me the truth when
he says, "Hey, this I don't believe this
product's going to work or I" I am
telling you the truth as far as I
believe it and I have a history of being
right and and that's the problem. Now
there's a societal problem which is that
we have all the basically obviously
ridiculous people especially the ones
who do not even know that they're
ridiculous because there's like some
kind of you know derangement syndrome
that is abregated their ability to
think. They speak up all the time and
they intimidate the rest of us. And
that's a big problem for our society
because I'll tell you, we are not living
in a world in the absence of delivery.
If America does not deliver, we will be
under the rule of that's defined by our
adversaries. This is just a fact. Let me
ask you this um because we're going to
run out of time and I just want to talk
to you about you personally for a moment
and what this is all about. We're all
watching you uh talk I think very openly
about your views and I want to know
where you think it all comes from. Um
where the energy comes from. Um your
your biographer says it comes from your
childhood. You grew up dyslexic.
Um you grew up uh to a Jewish
pediatrician was your father.
African-American artist was your mother.
And I want to know what you think has
led to led to all of this. What's
driving you?
>> Um, it's very hard to know these
question answer these questions. Um,
I mean my parents are extraordinarily
talented.
Um and
uh to the point where I think most of
the issues they confronted were just
everyone says they want to be around
extraordinarily smart people till
they're around extraordinarily smart
people and uh and and everyone thinks
you know they an interaction with my
parents will school you on what the
level of aptitude is in the world and
the rest of my family. Um and uh but I I
think for me people always write about
my parents and their background and you
know the far right hates that you know
we I grew up in a Jewish family and and
defend Jews
against the most disgusting and obvious
vehement attacks. Uh, and the far left
thinks because of my background I should
somehow give up real progressive thought
and support ideologies that only hurt
the people they claim to support. Um, I
I mean I so I think there's a those
article those ways of thinking don't
clear a certain level of thought
philosophically. Um, but and so I tend
to find them fairly boring and wish the
world someone else would speak up. The
dyslexia thing has been which I was
totally in the closet about is the
formative moment of my life and it's
simply because if you are massively
dyslexic you cannot play a playbook.
There is no playbook a dyslexic can
master and therefore we learn to think
freely. And so you know one definition
of dyslexia would be you have there are
many definitions one definition is that
I think is a clearing function is you
have a attenuated
uh relationship to um to to to to text
meaning a non-dislexic will read the
text and the text will become them de
facto the more you lead the more the
more the text becomes you no dyslexic
works that way and so there are huge
disadvantages honestly I would have cut
off my arms and legs probably or at
least something to to get rid of the
dyslexia. But the central advantage is I
process in a way that has very little to
do with what anyone else thinks. And
that that has powered a lot combined
with obviously obvious aptitude and I
believe in what we're doing. So we work
we're very aggressive in making it work.
Um I don't know but I really where it
comes from but I really believe in the
primacy of winning not for money which I
love the freedom of money but because
you know I do think what people will
believe will be downstream of what has
worked at some point in the future and I
believe in what we're doing.
>> Let me ask you this um and I want to
know whether you think this drives you.
Uh you told a story. Your mother uh
passed away from cancer and you were
interviewed. Uh just
>> No, wasn't she didn't That's wrong. But
>> that's wrong.
>> She didn't pass away.
>> No. Oh my goodness. So luckily
>> I don't know why uh why that note said
that.
>> Um I hope she didn't. Uh I thought you
were talking about this the jeweler.
>> Yeah.
>> Who helped your mother when she had
nothing.
>> But I was struck by this. I was struck
by u a quote where there was a jeweler
who helped your mother.
>> When my parents got divorced, my mom had
no money and there was a a very kind
family that took her in.
>> But you and and but you said this about
life and the and the jeweler helping
your mother and you said in general
people don't help you. And I I I
remember watching you say that and I
thought is that what's driving this?
meaning this view about how you think
the rest of the world views all of each
other helping each other or not that
that the world is actually not trying to
help you.
>> I do not believe it's accurate to say
the world will help you and I my
grandfather used to say be care be
careful who you help they'll never
forgive you. Um and uh I yeah I think
the more you want the true progressive
position is obviously help someone to
help themselves and I do believe the the
negative side of helping people I mean
there's a positive side of helping
people but the negative side of helping
people is you are conveying the idea
that they need your help and they need
it in perpetuity which is dehumi de
dehumanizes and de de takes away agency
from them. But I yeah, I do believe that
um you know, America
and strong individuals,
realistic individuals recognize you are
largely on your own. And the more you
recognize that, the better we will be as
a society and a world. And that's why
I'm very skeptical of like all these
like, you know, international whatever.
It it's all a way of curtailing and
constraining the obvious fact that some
cultures are superior. We live we live
in the superior culture as a culture
that defends our right to argue, defends
our right to back that up with arms.
Defends our right to privacy. So the
first, second, and fourth amendment. I
believe Palanteer and I are fully
aligned with the first, second, and
fourth amendment. No one believes the
fourth amendment, but it's arguably as
important as the others. The first
amendment was put first for a reason and
it we are we protect individuals in this
country and our constitution derives
that protection from a higher force God.
It is different than any other country
in the world. And the basis of that is
protecting our agency as humans. And why
do we have that agency? because it is
somehow magical in the in an artistic
sense or maybe in a religious sense it's
somehow divine and that agency is how we
help others and how we help ourselves
and uh and if you expect people to do
more than that now some people do the
the family I don't know if I should say
their name because I don't want them to
get protesters uh although I've had a
lot of people asking can they go buy
jewelry there especially people I've
made very wealthy and I'm proud of that
um there are people who manage to help
at key moments and those people I have
great reverence for and you will see in
your life that there are very few of
them like I had this adviser I when I
went to we transferred into a magnet
school at Central and I got you know
it's very American you're already at an
elite school I got an IQ test and she's
like you know what are your grades and
in any case she's like you should have
the best grades in the and like she
intervened and took care of me and I
revered that and I hope people at
Palunteer like when you come to Palent
Palanteer. Palanteer is the single most
elite educational brand in the world
currently. And if you have as defined by
it's like being at Harvard or Yale in
the 50s. If you are at Palanteer, you
will have a job immediately independent
of how you did there, which is no other
school can claim anymore. And part of
the reason people come and stay at
Palanteer is we actively engage in
cultivating minds. One last sentence
before you go. We cultivate minds by
being exceedingly difficult.
The minute you are not difficult is a
French saying
which basically means if you love
greatly you are exceedingly difficult.
Witness all the love I'm giving you. Um
>> and the New York Times
>> I've said um that one of the things we
try to do at this event every year is to
go inside the minds of uh the most
consequential people in the world. Alex
Karp, you are one of them and we have
now seen and gone inside your mind and
we want to thank you for the
conversation. Thank you. Thank you very
very very much. Appreciate it. Thank
you.
>> Um we are going to take uh the next hour
and a half for a remarkable lunch. I
hope you have a great time with some
amazing groundbreakers. We will see you
in just a little while.
Heat. Heat.